So we're ready to continue to the next
section then on generators and iterators.
So just everyone knows
what we're talking about.
We can create generator functions
with the little asterisk after
the function keyword.
And essentially what this does is
a generator function returns an iterator.
And this is a special type of object that
contains methods like next, return, and
throw, and it also has a state.
And with this iterator,
we can call the next method,
which kind of just like changes
the state you're running, and
then returns the value that gets
yielded from the generator function.
So in this case, we yield one.
So whenever we call next, the value
is 1 and done is false because there
are still more values to be yielded
within the generator function.
So, whenever we call it again, hello, yes,
it changes back to running and
then it returns that value.
But we have to explicitly invoke next to
actually do that because with regular
functions, it's like kind of this all or
nothing approach.
Whenever we call a regular function,
it will just execute that entire body.
There's no way for
us to kind of pause it in between.
With a generator function, we can.
Yeah, and it'll just keep doing this until
we actually returned from the generator
function either explicitly or
implicitly, in which case done is true.
Now, the cool thing with, and
then it's closed, with iterators is that,
or with generator functions is
that we can then create iterables.
So we can use the spread operator on
the iterator that gets returned from
the generator function and
use stuff like for of.
And you can see that whenever we do that,
only the yield of values get logged, so
not their actual return value.
So this question is pretty much the same
as this example that I show here.
But question 21 is what gets logged.
So we have the generator function count
that yields 1, 2, and then returns 3.
And then we have a for of method that
logs the value of the returned iterator
object that gets returned [LAUGH]
from the count generator function.
So with that log, either 1 2 3,
1 2 Promise, 3, 1, or 1 2.
The right answer here is 1 and 2, E.
I'm just going to copy this and
show you what's going on in the console.
All right, so we have this generator count
function, but when whenever, or actually,
I'm going to set the iterable to count.
So again, whenever we invoke count, we're
not running any function or anything,
unlike if we had like function count,
this would execute the function,
that's not the case with
a generator function.
So now, you can see that it is suspended,
that's kind of what i just
tried to show you and
then it has the prototype generator and
this contains next, return, and throw.
And this gets used by methods
that need an iterable or
that iterate over iterable.
So the const, or for of, or
using the spread operator,.
So we can use like it, this is 1,
2, or that const value of it.
Well, actually, so if we do it again now,
you can see that, or, okay,
let me just log this, and
you can see that it's closed now.
And that is because we, the iterator
itself, we've kind of exhausted now.
We've already, yielded all the values,
so now it's closed.
Of course, what we can do is just create
another one, so it2 is count again.
And this is fine, we can just
iterate over it2 again, that's fine.
Cuz like we just created a new object
based on that generator function.
But once it's closed,
once we've already yielded all the values,
we cannot reuse the same iterable.
Anyway, so 1,2 is here and that was
also the answer for this const of.
Question 22, to create a custom
iterable objects in JavaScript,
so we have a normal object and
we wanna make it iterable, the object must
implement the Symbol.iterator
method that returns an iterator.
The iterator must implement what method?
Is it next, iterator, iterate, forEach,
or is it just iterable as is, so
we don't have to add anything?
And the right answer to this is next.
And we just saw that on the prototype.
But yeah, so we have a regular
object here which by default isn't
iterable like we cannot use for of or
use the spread operator on an object.
But we can make it an iterate by
implementing the iterator protocol.
And we can do that with Symbol.iterator.
So this returns another object that
must adhere to that protocols and
that has to return the next method.
What we can also do is add the little
asterisk in front of the symbol iterator
and this actually makes it a generator
object that already adheres to that
protocol anyways.
So in that case,
we can make a normal object that isn't
iterable by default an iterable.
So that can be pretty useful
if you have a lot of data or
the object contains data and you wanna
somehow just map over it or maybe be like,
yield values based on specific conditions.
In that case, adding or
making it iterable can be very useful.
What's get logged with the following?
So we have an async generator function
with range, start, and end and that,
yeah, we have a for loop that creates a
loop and it yields the result promise for
the index.
And then we have a generator or
a gen iterator, where we have range 1,
2, 3, and then we have a four away
const of loop that logs the item.
All right, and
the right answer is C, it's 1 2 3.
Cuz essentially like what this is,
or at least how I see it in my mind,
simplified with the same ideas,
that we have that async generator function
that just yields the resolved, or
a resolved promise every time.
And we can use it for await of loop to
yield promises instead of just like
regular non promise values, but
it awaits that result promise.
So when we await a promise, item is equal
to the value that we pass to resolve.
So in this case,
it'll just log 123 because we're
already awaiting the result value.
So, yeah, just an FYI that we can
also have async generator functions.
And of course, like with generator
function, what is nice is that if you're
reading a lot of data or you're reading
a file or anything that comes into,
I don't know, just network and you wanna
filter it or you wanna find certain data.
You don't have to have everything in
memory before you can start mapping over
that data, filtering it, cuz by
yielding it or just kind of by splicing
it up every time you can say,
okay, well, I've already found it.
I don't need to load everything into
memory already, I can just only do it when
I really need it when I haven't found that
value yet, then you can automatically or
you can manually invoke next again
to get more data every time.
That's kind of the main,
I don't know, use case for
iterators in general,
just to map over a lot of data.
Okay, so here we have another generator
function gen1, yields 2 and 3.
And then we have a gen2 generator
function with a yield with an asterisk.
So what would this log if we log
with a spread operator gen2?
Is it 1 2 3 1, and then an array of 2 3 4,
a SyntaxError, or 1 4 3 2?
So the answer here is A, it's 1 2 3 4.
So the thing is that we're
delegating another yield or
another iterable by having
that yield with that asterisk.
So essentially what we're doing, dang it.
I'll just go here.
It's already open.
Is that we're essentially saying like
this, it's pretty much the same.
Like it goes to this yield and
whenever we have this one,
it then turns here,
yields 2, 3, and then 4.
This could have been anything.
This also could have been,
I don't know 1, 2, 3, is it?
I'm just gonna open this room
with that one, index.js.
That would have done the same thing,
that's fine.
It could have been any iterable.
It could have even been a string.
That's fine.
It would just make it part of the current
kind of yield.
So in this case, yeah.
And this is called delegating a yield.
So I don't know, you can kind of just
visualize it mentally as if we're
just adding it to the generator
function like that.
>> If you didn't have the star,
would the answer be B then?
>> So then you're just creating that,
you're yielding the returned
value of the generator function.
And you can see that here
is the object generator.
Yeah, and no, you can't really expand it.
But then you're just yielding that value,
so you're not doing anything with it.
Let's see what happens when we do this.
Then you have a, cuz then we
are iterating over that iterable
which calls that next method
under the hood, spreads it, and
that yields this value which is 2, 3.
Yeah, [LAUGH] I don't think I've
ever used this in real life or
delegating yield, but I'm sure there are
plenty of use cases where you do need it